# davidbthomp.github.io
# David Thompson

## Assignment 1
I am taking this course as an introduction to JavaScript and it's application to the front-end of websites. I am currently taking this class concurrently with WEB 250 which is using NodeJS on the back-end. I have been waiting to dive into JavaScript fully and this semester is going to be full of it. I plan to use JavaScript in the future to make my website modern, robust, and interactive. I know it adds a lot of capability to websites and is one of the 3 basic languages of the front-end. The past, present, and future of websites are dependent on a web developer's ability to use these languages in conjunction, JavaScript being one of the critical ones. 

## Assignment 2
This assignment taught me how to integrate JavaScript into my page while using buttons. Before I knew how to use window.alert but found this rather intrusive and annoying. Not only will integrating the buttons on the page be more useful in the future, but it also allows me to customize the experience a lot more by changing the HTML and CSS.  I also learned more about managing the functions that I have in my JavaScript. Initially, I was trying to just run everything in order from top to bottom with no functions splitting anything apart. When I used the functions the processing of the JavaScript made a lot more sense and functioned better. In the future, I will 100% be using JavaScript like this in order to customize the user experience of a website that I design.

## Assignment 3
This assignment has us working on using and integrating functions so that everything isn't working as a global parameter. This taught me that using functions to break up our code not only makes it more manageable but also more functional because we can easily debug and edit things when needed. I also learned how to essentially create prompts in the HTML using buttons. This will help the pages and data I create to be more user friendly. In the future, I believe I will always being using functions within JavaScript to manage and create code as it is standard practice. Without functions, we can easily get lost and ruin code.

## Assignment 4
Session 4 has us learning about event and their purpose in JavaScript. I jumped the gun in session 3 using them but got to learn more by watching the videos and visiting the sites on the Wikiversity page. I learned about the events that are on-hover, on-load, on-unload, and mouse tracking. I learned that events are useful ways to run your JavaScript functions if you are waiting for user input. In the future, I will use this to get information from users and most likely will use JavaScript to send this information to another file or database. I imagine this will also be useful for creating super interactive sites that move with the user and interact with the user.

##Assignment 5
This session was focused on the use of conditional statements to make our programs have options. Conditional statements allow us to pick and choose what happens after certain conditions are met. This is a fundamental building block of many tools and operates a bit differently from the previous lesson of events. Events make something happen, conditional statements choose what happens when that event is met. This introduces other issues such as breaking the statement and preventing loops from happening. These actions taking place based on different conditions is useful in the future because it is a basic element of coding. Without the ability to use conditionals, we would be left with an only very basic use of the language. 
